
# Networking

## Introduction to Networking

The Networking service, code-named neutron, provides an API that lets you define
network connectivity and addressing in the cloud. The Networking service enables 
operators to leverage different networking technologies to power their cloud networking. 
The Networking service also provides an API to configure and manage a variety of 
network services ranging from L3 forwarding and NAT to load balancing, edge firewalls, 
and IPsec VPN.

For a detailed description of the Networking API abstractions and their attributes, 
see the OpenStack Networking API v2.0 Reference.

## Networking API

Networking is a virtual network service that provides a powerful API to define 
the network connectivity and IP addressing that devices from other services, such 
as Compute, use.

The Compute API has a virtual server abstraction to describe computing resources. 
Similarly, the Networking API has virtual network, subnet, and port abstractions 
to describe networking resources.

* Network: An isolated L2 segment, analogous to VLAN in the physical networking 
world.
* Subnet: A block of v4 or v6 IP addresses and associated configuration state.
* Port: A connection point for attaching a single device, such as the NIC of a 
virtual server, to a virtual network. Also describes the associated network configuration, 
such as the MAC and IP addresses to be used on that port.

To configure rich network topologies, you can create and configure networks and 
subnets and instruct other OpenStack services like Compute to attach virtual devices 
to ports on these networks.

In particular, Networking supports each tenant having multiple private networks 
and enables tenants to choose their own IP addressing scheme, even if those IP 
addresses overlap with those that other tenants use.

The Networking service:

* Enables advanced cloud networking use cases, such as building multi-tiered web 
applications and enabling migration of applications to the cloud without changing 
IP addresses.
* Offers flexibility for the cloud administrator to customize network offerings.
* Enables developers to extend the Networking API. Over time, the extended functionality 
becomes part of the core Networking API.

# Configure SSL support for networking API

SKIP

## Load-Balancer-as-a-Service (LBaaS) overview

Load-Balancer-as-a-Service (LBaaS) enables Networking to distribute incoming requests 
evenly among designated instances. This distribution ensures that the workload is 
shared predictably among instances and enables more effective use of system resources. 
Use one of these load balancing methods to distribute incoming requests:

SKIP

## Firewall-as-a-Service (FWaaS) overview

* The Firewall-as-a-Service (FWaaS) plug-in adds perimeter firewall management to 
Networking. FWaaS uses iptables to apply firewall policy to all Networking routers 
within a project. FWaaS supports one firewall policy and logical firewall instance 
per project.

Whereas security groups operate at the instance-level, FWaaS operates at the perimeter 
to filter traffic at the neutron router.

The example diagram illustrates the flow of ingress and egress traffic for the 
VM2 instance:

http://docs.openstack.org/admin-guide-cloud/content/figures/12/a/a/common/figures/fwaas.png

[Figure 7.1. FWaaS Architecutre]


### To enable FWaaS


FWaaS management options are also available in the OpenStack dashboard.

1. Enable the FWaaS plug-in in the neutron.conf file:
```
service_plugins = firewall
[service_providers]
service_provider = FIREWALL:Iptables:neutron.agent.linux.iptables_firewall.OVSHybridIptablesFirewallDriver:default
[fwaas]
driver = neutron.services.firewall.drivers.linux.iptables_fwaas.IptablesFwaasDriver
enabled = True
```

1. Enable the option in the /usr/share/openstack-dashboard/openstack_dashboard/local/local_settings.py file, 
which is typically located on the controller node:
```
'enable_firewall' = True
```

### To configure Firewall-as-a-Service

Create the firewall rules and create a policy that contains them. Then, create 
a firewall that applies the policy.

1. Create a firewall rule:
```
neutron firewall-rule-create --protocol {tcp|udp|icmp|any} -- destination-port PORT_RANGE --action {allow|deny}
```
The Networking client requires a protocol value; if the rule is protocol 
agnostic, you can use the any value.

2. Create firewall policy:
```
neutron firewall-policy-create --firewall-rules "FIREWALL_RULE_IDS_OR_NAMES" myfirewallpolicy
```

Separate firewall rule IDs or names with spaces. The order in which you specify the rules is important.

You can create a firewall policy without any rules and add rules later, as follows:
* To add multiple rules, use the update operation.
* To add a single rule, use the insert-rule operation.

For more details, see Networking command-line client in the OpenStack Command-Line Interface Reference.

    <!> FWaaS always adds a default deny all rule at the lowest precedence of each 
    policy. Consequently, a firewall policy with no rules blocks all traffic by 
    default.

3. Create a firewall:
```
neutron firewall-create FIREWALL_POLICY_UUID
```

    <!> The firewall remains in PENDING_CREATE state until you create a Networking 
    router and attach an interface to it.

Allowed-address-pairs. Allowed-address-pairs enable you to specify mac_address/
ip_address(cidr) pairs that pass through a port regardless of subnet. This enables 
the use of protocols such as VRRP, which floats an IP address between two instances 
to enable fast data plane failover.

    <!> Currently, only the ML2, Open vSwitch, and VMware NSX plugins support 
    the allowed-address-pairs extension.

Basic allowed-address-pairs operations.
*  Create a port with a specified allowed address pairs:
```
neutron port-create net1 --allowed-address-pairs type=dict list=true mac_address=MAC_ADDRESS,ip_address=IP_CIDR
```
* Update port by adding allowed addreess pairs:
```
neutron port-update PORT_UUID --allowed-address-pairs type=dict list=true mac_address=MAC_ADDRESS,ip_address=IP_CIDR
```

    <!> In releases earlier than Juno, OpenStack Networking prevents setting an 
    allowed address pair on a port that matches the MAC address and one of the 
    fixed IP addresses of the port.


## Plug-in Architecture

The original Compute network implementation assumed a basic model of isolation 
through Linux VLANs and IP tables. Networking introduces support for vendor plug-ins, 
which offer a custom back-end implementation of the Networking API. A plug-in can 
use a variety of technologies to implement the logical API requests. Some Networking 
plug-ins might use basic Linux VLANs and IP tables while others might use more advanced 
technologies, such as L2-in-L3 tunneling or OpenFlow, to provide similar benefits.

* Big Switch (Floodlight REST Proxy)
    * This guide and http://www.openflowhub.org/display/floodlightcon- troller/Neutron+REST+Proxy+Plugin
* Brocade: 
    * This guide and https://wiki.openstack.org/wiki/Brocade-neutron-plug- in
* Cisco
    * http://wiki.openstack.org/cisco-neutron
* Cloudbase Hyper-V
    * http://www.cloudbase.it/quantum-hyper-v-plugin/
* IBM SDN-VE
    * https://wiki.openstack.org/wiki/IBM-Neutron
* Linux Bridge
    * http://wiki.openstack.org/Neutron-Linux-Bridge-Plugin
* Mellanox
    * https://wiki.openstack.org/wiki/Mellanox-Neutron/
* Midonet
    * http://www.midokura.com/
* ML2 (Modular Layer 2)
    * https://wiki.openstack.org/wiki/Neutron/ML2
* NEC OpenFlow
    * https://wiki.openstack.org/wiki/Neutron/NEC_OpenFlow_Plugin
* Open vSwitch
    * This guide.
* OpenFlow Agent
    * https://github.com/osrg/ryu/wiki/Configuration-OpenStack-OFA- gent-agent and http://git.openstack.org/cgit/openstack/neu- tron/tree/neutron/plugins/ofagent/README
* PLUMgrid
    * This guide and https://https://wiki.openstack.org/wiki/PLUM- grid-Neutron
* Ryu
    * This guide and https://github.com/osrg/ryu/wiki/OpenStack
* VMware NSX
    * This guide and NSX Product Overview, NSX Product Support

Plug-ins can have different properties for hardware requirements, features, performance, 
scale, or operator tools. Because Networking supports a large number of plug-ins, 
the cloud administrator must determine the right networking technology for the deployment.

In the Havana release, OpenStack Networking introduces the Modular Layer 2 (ML2) 
plugin that enables the use of multiple concurrent mechanism drivers. This capability 
aligns with the complex requirements typically found in large heterogeneous environments. 
It currently works with the existing Open vSwitch, Linux Bridge, and Hyper-v L2 agents. 
The ML2 framework simplifies the addition of support for new L2 technologies and 
reduces the effort that is required to add and maintain them compared to earlier 
large plug-ins.

    <!> The Open vSwitch and Linux Bridge plug-ins are deprecated in the Havana 
    release and will be removed in the Icehouse release. The features in these 
    plug-ins are now part of the ML2 plug-in in the form of mechanism drivers.



## Plug-in configurations

    <!> kauri: neutron server 의 정체성...

For configurations options, see Networking configuration options in Configuration 
Reference. These sections explain how to configure specific plug-ins.

### Configure OVS plug-in

If you use the Open vSwitch (OVS) plug-in in a deployment with multiple hosts, 
you must use either tunneling or vlans to isolate traffic from multiple networks. 
Tunneling is easier to deploy because it does not require that you configure VLANs 
on network switches.

This procedure uses tunneling:

#### To configure OpenStack Networking to use the OVS plug-in

1. Edit /etc/neutron/plugins/openvswitch/ovs_neutron_plugin.ini file to specify these values:
    * For database configuration, see Install Networking Services in the Installation Guide.
```
enable_tunneling=True 
tenant_network_type=gre 
tunnel_id_ranges=1:1000
# only required for nodes running agents local_ip=DATA_NET_IP_NODE_ADDRESS
```

2. If you use the neutron DHCP agent, add these lines to the /etc/neutron/dhcp_agent.ini file: 
    ```
    dnsmasq_config_file=/etc/neutron/dnsmasq/dnsmasq-neutron.conf
    ```
    * Restart the DHCP service to apply the settings:
    ```
    # service neutron-dhcp-agent restart
    ```

SKIP

### Configure NSX plug-in

#### To configure OpenStack Networking to use the NSX plug-in

While the instructions in this section refer to the VMware NSX platform, this is formerly known as Nicira NVP.

1. Install the NSX plug-in:
```
# apt-get install neutron-plugin-vmware
```

2. Edit the /etc/neutron/neutron.conf file and set this line:
```
core_plugin = vmware
rabbit_host = 192.168.203.10
allow_overlapping_ips = True
```

SKIP

#### Load-Balancer-as-a-Service and Firewall-as-a-Service

The NSX LBaaS and FWaaS services use the standard OpenStack API with the exception of requiring routed-insertion extension support.

The NSX implementation and the community reference implementation of these services differ, as follows:

1. The NSX LBaaS and FWaaS plug-ins require the routed-insertion extension, which adds the router_id attribute to the VIP (Virtual IP address) and firewall resources and binds these services to a logical router.
2. The community reference implementation of LBaaS only supports a one-arm model, which restricts the VIP to be on the same subnet as the back-end servers. The NSX LBaaS plug-in only supports a two-arm model between north-south traffic, which means that you can create the VIP on only the external (physical) network.
3. The community reference implementation of FWaaS applies firewall rules to all logical routers in a tenant, while the NSX FWaaS plug-in applies firewall rules only to one logical router according to the router_id of the firewall entity.

SKIP

## Configure neutron agent


